seo is great but before you really
invest a lot into it there's something
you should know hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm gonna break down
advice every online business ownership
here before starting seo
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
look seo is long term
you need other traffic sources to make
money before you succeed with seo at my
ad agency np digital we help so many
people grow their traffic but i tell
people hey if you're starting off and
you need sales today seo is not going to
provide that it is a long-term approach
now let's go over what you need to
generate sales now which will make you
cash so you can then take that cash and
invest in seo it doesn't mean that you
shouldn't start doing seo right now
because in the future it's one of the
highest roi marketing channels out there
but still you need to start doing stuff
right now to generate those sales
because you can't wait six months or a
year or two years depending on the
keywords you're going after to really
get the results
first you need to learn how to convert
visitors into buyers if you can't
convert visitors into buyers then it
doesn't matter how much traffic you get
and if you can't get your conversion
rate high enough the economics won't
work out especially with paid
advertising because the costs are
continually rising especially after
cobit you know i remember right after
cobid like a year later google had an
earnings report of like a 60 something
percent increase in ad revenue
that's how expensive ads are getting
now most people raise money for sales
and marketing that's what people don't
know especially in the startup world
right but you see all those companies on
tech crunch and size racing hundreds of
millions and sometimes billions of
dollars that money is typically spent on
sales and marketing you don't really
need a billion dollars for engineering
when you're a startup but you do need it
to scale your sales and marketing
and you need to have a conversion funnel
with upsells and down cells that's how
you get the most out of your revenue the
upsells and down sales the key with that
is speed and automation so let's say
you're selling wrinkle cream if you're
selling wrinkle cream and you help
people get the results faster
they're going to be happier and if you
can help them get in more of an
automated way so they don't have to
spend hours putting on cream every day
maybe through some light therapy or
something i don't know making this up
on the light therapy because i don't
know much about anti-aging cream
that's a great upsell because speed and
automation
really do help boost conversions and it
increases your overall cart value and
that can generate you more money if your
service based business a conversion rate
increase through upsells and down sales
for example at np digital when someone
comes to us and says hey neil and team
we want you to work on seo we may upsell
them on pay-per-click we may upsell them
on amazon ads we may upsell on
conversion optimization that's ways to
get more upsells and as long as you're
producing results people will gladly
take you on those upsells and downsells
second thing that you need to know
search engines give older websites
more
authority and more placement now there's
no guarantee that if your older website
you have more authority than your
website because you could be a brand new
hot website that everyone wants to link
to and talk about but that's usually not
the case typically the older sites have
much more 30. and no matter how much
money you have you can't easily buy that
age you just have to be patient and
that's the thing with seo it is super
effective the roi is massive and that's
why we have one of the fastest 500
growing companies according to inc
magazine because seo works for customers
and our results are proven
but
i can't buy you the rankings the next
day you just have to be patient sadly i
wish i could and you'll find that it
takes time to build that authority build
that trust build the rankings
and what really helps with that is brand
building and you'll find that the bigger
brand that you build the more word of
mouth that you'll get the more better
conversions you'll get just like if you
copy amazon's design and you just change
the company your company name from
amazon to something else amazon will
still have higher conversions than you
because of that trust factor so you got
to be patient and you got to work on
building your brand and you're probably
wondering hey
how do i do this well first off you have
to stay in business for the long haul
right if you stay in business for the
long haul you're going to be better off
versus just doing something for the
short term
third
don't take short-term gains for
long-term losses i remember years and
years ago warren buffett sent out a
letter to his ceos telling them
that hey if you have an option to make
money in the short run but it hurts your
customers in the long run don't do it
it's going to create a worse business in
the long run so sometimes you have to
take some licks in the short run to make
sure that you're doing what's best for
your business in the long run now when i
look at my ad agency np digital we've
had a lot of people in the last six
months to a year
throwing offers to give us money and
financing and invest in the company but
a lot of the investors don't understand
the long-term approach it's not
necessarily that they don't get it some
of them probably will if i explain it to
them some of them will but the point of
the story is is i haven't taken on
capital because i'm a big believer in
doing what's best for the long term i'm
willing to take losses to really please
people because i know branding is
everything just like i had a lady called
me up
you know around six months ago and she's
like neil your team sold me a marketing
i'm really really tiny and this is when
we started our smb division and they
sold it on that package that was a few
hundred dollars a month
we don't sell marketing that cheap i
don't know why a sales rep did that so i
spent my own time and some of my team's
resources going above and beyond to help
her out to try to make the economics
work for her so that way she can make
money even though we lost money and
that's what i mean by doing whatever it
takes to really succeed in the long run
right if one of my team members messes
up that's on me i need to go and do
whatever i can to clean it up even if
that means it's going to cost me money
so another thing and this is a story i
want to tell you is the amazon story
back in the day
jeff bezos is like i want to release
reviews on amazon and tell people what
other people think about the products
have the star ratings let people leave
reviews people like you're crazy that's
going to decrease your sales but you
know what that did for amazon well you
do because amazon's one of the biggest
companies in the world and jeff bezos is
the richest person in the world at least
at the current moment so doing what's
best for your customers wins in the long
run
fourth create a better mousetrap
as marketing is becoming too expensive
look i'm a marketer and i'm telling you
it's just going to keep going up and up
so you got to figure out a better
mousetrap for example zillow they
weren't the first real estate website
but there be a lot of sites like
home.com and realtor.com and how they do
that well they built a better mousetrap
with their z estimate and that was
amazing and that got a lot of people to
come over and say like oh this is
roughly what my house is worth
you know when you look at neilpatel.com
there's a lot of other blogs on
marketing i released a marketing tool
uber says and i gave away what my
competitors charge 20 30 50 100 a month
for mainly for free that was my
mousetrap to get a lot of people over to
my website without having to continually
spend money and you can do some things
that are very similar there are sites
like codecanyon that can help you put
tools on your website which can help you
get traffic and you give away stuff for
free and you can buy some of these tools
for 10 20 30 40
they're not going to be as good as what
zillow did or what i did but it's a
start and then over time
you can invest more money to making them
better now if you have any questions
around these strategies leave a comment
below i'm here to help out if you want
my team to just help you grow your
traffic check out np digital and if you
enjoy the video like it share it tell
the people about it subscribe to the
channel thank you very much